We've looked at classification,
regression and cluster analysis.
Let's now discuss association
analysis as a machine learning task.
After this video, you will be able to
explain what association analysis entails,
list some applications of association
analysis, define what an item set is.
In association analysis, the goal is to
come up with a set of rules to capture
associations between items or events.
The rules are used to determine when
items or events occur together.
You may remember seeing these images
earlier in the course, where we introduced
the different categories of machine
learning tasks and techniques.
But do you remember what
the association is between these items?
Well, let's recap that story,
in case you don't remember.
The story goes like this.
A supermarket chain used
association analysis to discover
a connection between two
seemingly unrelated products.
They discovered that many
customers who go to the store
late on Sunday night to buy
diapers also tend to buy beer.
This information was then used to
place beer and diapers close together.
And they saw a jump in
sales of both items.
This illustrates that you
can uncover unexpected and
useful relationships with
association analysis.
This diaper and beer story has become
part of the data mining folklore.
It's unclear how much of it true, but it
has become the prime example of what you
can discover with association analysis and
machine learning in general.
A common application of association
analysis is referred to as
market basket analysis.
This is used to understand
the purchasing behavior of customers.
The idea is that you're looking into
the shopping basket of customers
when they are at the market, and
analyzing that data to understand
what items are purchased together.
This information can be used to
place related items together, or
to have sales on items that
are often purchased together.
Another application of association
analysis is to recommend items that
a customer may be interested in, based
on their purchasing or browsing history.
This is very commonly used
on companies' websites
to get customers to buy more items.
There are medical applications as well.
Analysis of patients and treatments may
reveal associations to identify effective
treatments for
patients with certain medical histories.
this diagram illustrates how
association analysis works.
The data set is a collection
of transactions.
Each transaction contains one or
more items.
This is referred to as the item set.
From the given items sets,
generate association rules that capture
which item tend occur together.
In our example, the data set
consists of five transactions.
In the first transaction,
the items are diaper, bread and milk.
The second transaction has items bread,
diaper, beer, and eggs, and so on.
Rules that could be generated from
this data set are shown at the bottom.
For example,
the first rule states that if bread and
milk are bought together,
then diaper is also bought.
The second rule state that if milk is
bought, then bread is also bought.
The association analysis process
consist of the following steps.
The first step is to create item sets.
Item sets are generated for sets with one
item, two items, three items and so on.
Then frequent item sets are identified.
Frequent item sets are those that occur
at least a minimum number of times.
From the frequent item sets,
association rules are generated.
We will take a more detailed look
at these steps in the next lecture.
Some things to note about
association analysis.
Like cluster analysis, each transaction
does not have a label to specify which
item set or rule it belongs to.
So, association analysis
is an unsupervised task.
You may end up with many rules
at the end of the analysis.
But, whether those rules are interesting,
useful,
or applicable, requires interpretation
using domain knowledge of the application.
In addition,
the association analysis process will
not tell you how to apply the rules.
This also requires knowledge
of the application.
So as with cluster analysis,
interpretation and analysis are required
to make sense of the resulting rules
that you get from association analysis.
In summary,
association analysis finds rules to
capture associations between items.
The association rules have intuitive
appeal because they are in the form of
if this, then that,
which is easy to understand.
The results of association
analysis require analysis and
interpretation using domain knowledge
to determine the usefulness and
applicability of the resulting rules.
Next we will cover the steps in
the association analysis process in
more detail.